- So the key takeaway from this course and from the new research in science that has been done around stress management, the key takeaway is that the stories we tell ourselves about stress really have a profound impact upon our response to stress, both physiologically, biologically, intellectually, emotionally, right? The stories we tell ourselves, the narratives we tell ourselves, the context in which we hold stress, right, that has a profound impact upon our ability to deal with stress. And so this data which has been revealed through this research and this science on stress management is disruptive data. It's disrupting the current old way of doing things, and it's introducing a new way of doing it, a better practice, right? Like this is the best practice, but it's a completely, it's a complete paradigm shift. It's the complete opposite end of the spectrum, right? It's a 180 degree contrarian perspective from the old way of looking at things. So the data that has been uncovered and revealed through this research and science, this new research and science on stress management, has really kind of changed and upended the current cultural perspective view and approach to dealing with and managing with stress. So the old way, right, this is the pretty much still the current paradigm most people are operating under, but the old message we got about stress was that stress is bad, it makes you sick, and stress was demonized. And you could see this on magazine covers and in newspaper articles, right? Like every, and it was kind of like, try to get rid of stress if you can. But that's a really hard thing to do because we are all, always as humans, gonna have stressors and challenges in our lives. And so the new message and what the new research and the new data supports and shows is that if we tell ourselves a new skillful story around stress, that's actually gonna change everything for us. It changes the whole game, changes our physiological and biological response, changes our emotional and intellectual response, and it helps us manage and deal with stress more effectively, and we're gonna see data on that, but here we're just getting this main takeaway. So the new message that we have to start to integrate and implement into our lives is that stress is good. It's a totally contrarian message from the old message, right? Stress is good, it actually makes you strong, it makes you more resilient and performant and focused. It exists within us to help us. And so a new narrative that you might start to tell yourself is that life is better without stress, and when stress arises, it is here to help you, make you stronger, energize you, motivate you, and focus you, right? And so some examples of, you know, how stress is really beneficial to making you stronger and to helping you in your life are like weightlifting, right, you need stress to get stronger muscles. Vaccines, right, love and relationships and relationship bonds, and mental processing and physical recovery, you know, and even your own personal growth and progress and evolution in your own life. They are all like aided and made better through some stress, right? Some stress is beneficial to helping you progress in many different areas of your life. And so, we'll explore those examples in more depth in a video coming up soon, but we're just starting here to shift our narrative, our perspective on stress, and we're giving up an old way of doing something, and we're starting to adopt a new paradigm, a new way of doing things, right? We're starting to release this old message, and it can be hard to release it, 'cause we've, it's been ingrained into us and, you know, through our culture, through the media for quite some time that stress is bad and we should try to avoid it and get rid of it. But we're starting to try to tell ourselves a new narrative that actually stress can be something that's beneficial for us. It could be good for us. It could make us stronger, more resilient, performant, and focused. It exists within us to help us. And by doing this, it's actually going to become the case, it's going to become so. And so that new narrative in that cloud right there is a nice one to tell yourself. And so the main takeaway, right, from the research and from this course is that your beliefs about stress determine the impact of stress on your body and life. Wow, that's pretty amazing. Your beliefs about stress determine the impact of stress on your body and life. And this is, again, all research backed. So in the next video, we're gonna see an example about changing our narrative around stress, and I'll illustrate that with an example from my life, and I'll show you how we actually start to do this in our own lives. See ya in the next video.