- When I was young, I had a teacher one time share with me this phrase and this phrase has stuck with me ever since and I've reflected on it many different times in my life. But the phrase was this, the phrase was ignorance is the source of all suffering. Ignorance is the source of all suffering. And I think this is a really interesting phrase because the corollary to this phrase is that as we come out of ignorance, we also come outta suffering. As we gain new knowledge and new information, that leads to new opportunities. And it allows us to live in a more skillful way where we have a more skillful life and we can avoid suffering. And so, I just wanna speak to this for a moment because as you go through this course, you're gonna gain new knowledge, you're gonna gain new skills, you're gonna gain new information and that's gonna allow you to live your life in a more skillful way. And that's gonna be great both for you individually and also for your entire organization. As other individuals within your organization become more skillful, as you become more skillful within an organization, the entire organization becomes more skillful. So this will have, this material in this course will have individual and organizational benefits. And the amazing thing is, is that as we each improve ourselves individually, collectively we improve because a team is made up of individuals, so as all the individuals become more skillful, the team becomes more skillful. So if you optimize individuals, you optimize groups of individuals, right? So optimize individuals and you optimize groups of individuals. And so this is a really profound opportunity that all of us always have, but that you are acting upon right now to gain new knowledge, to educate ourselves, to learn something new, to come out of ignorance, to come out of suffering and to become more skillful so that we can operate in the world individually and collectively in a more skillful way and build a more skillful life and build more skillful organizations and realize greater success, individually and collectively. So it's a wonderful thing that you're doing and I just want to commend you for that and encourage you to take the time, to invest the time, a couple of hours. And if you invest the time in this course, you're gonna gain some great new pieces of knowledge and information and skills and material which will help you in your life and also benefit everybody else that you work with. And if other individuals go in your organization go through this course, it'll also help them. So the right information can change your life. Here I am with a picture of one of my former students. He used to be a lab attendant at a college and then he took a couple of my classes and now he is an employee at Apple Computers and he was recently recognized as one of the top 200 employees and he got to go to a special barbecue with the CEO, Tim Cook, and they hung out. But if you invest in learning and in growing, you will change, new opportunities will open to you in your life, you'll be able to build a more skillful life because you will become more skillful. And so that's a wonderful thing to do. And so if you just take consistent action in a skillful direction every day, learn a little bit, go through the course, one or two videos a day, over a couple of weeks, you're gonna learn some amazing things and it's gonna help you build a more skillful life. So never give up, just keep going. I included a little quote here from the Dalai Lama that I saw one time that I really liked. So you could pause the video and read through that. But just keep going. You're doing great. Move through all these videos. You're gonna learn some wonderful skills and it's gonna help you build a more skillful life. See you in the next video where we will continue learning. See you in the next video.