- All right, I wanna give you a few details about this course. And the first thing I wanna share with you is how we learn. And this is me with one of the greatest teachers in my life, my mom, and this course, I'll say this right here at the beginning, this course is going to be drawing upon personal experiences from my own life. And the reason it's gonna draw upon personal experiences from my own life, and you can see right here, personal, is that we learn in three primary areas. We learn one, from theory, and then we also learn from experience. And then we also learn from example, which is the experience of others. And so, theory, experience and example are like the three categories, three main areas we learn. And just to illustrate this with an example, if you were gonna learn how to play basketball, first somebody would tell you, "Look, this is how you play basketball." They'd give you the theory, right? And then you'd go out on the court and you'd try. You'd get experience, you'd actually try it and you'd learn from trying to dribble, trying to shoot the ball. So you'd learn from theory, you'd learn from experience. And then you'd also learn from example, like you'd see somebody else do an amazing move and you'd be like, "Oh, I want to do that move, too." And then you could go practice that move and start to own that move yourself. So, we learn from the experiences of others. And because we learn in these three ways, in this course, you'll be given theory. You'll also be given a chance to apply some of that theory with exercises so you'll be able to learn through experience. And then I'm also gonna share some examples from my own life. So, it'll be personal in that way. This course will be personal. There'll be pictures from my own life and that will allow you to learn from my own experience, from the examples of others. So, just letting you know why there's so many pictures of me in the course sometimes. I'm just trying to make it a personable course where you learn from my experiences, and then also just when you know your teacher, also, data shows that you learn more effectively when you feel a connection with your teacher. So that's also why I'm keeping things a little bit personal in the course. To manage some expectations, I'm down in the basement of our home and we've got two dogs and here are pictures of those dogs, and they're upstairs. And sometimes if like the postman or delivery person comes, they'll bark. So if there's a little bit of barking, I'll just pause and then we'll resume the video. Occasionally you might hear some barking, but here what I'm doing is I'm managing expectations. And this is a tool that you can use to help manage stress in whatever environments you're in, personal or professional. But when you manage expectations for yourself and for others effectively, that helps you manage stress. And so now I don't have to be stressed about the dogs barking. And if you hear the dogs barking, you'll understand what's going on. And then there'll just be a little break in the video from when they started barking to when they stopped. And then I'll pick up wherever we left off. But that's helping me avoid stress, just managing this expectation with you. And it's also modeling for you one of the tools that we can use to manage stress in our own lives is just to manage expectations, both with ourselves and with others, right? So to have that clarity of conversation and to have clarity about what to expect and what might occur, helps us avoid and manage stress. And then the last thing I wanna say about course details here is that there's a difference between soft science and hard science. And so, hard science is like math, physics, chemistry. It's formulas and recipes. It's definitive, it's discreet. It's exactly reproducible, exactly. Like if one person does it, another person can exactly achieve the exact same results. Soft science, on the other hand, is where data is collected and analyzed, empirical data, and results are more difficult to predict and it's more ambiguous. It goes from like ambiguous environments to really wicked problems. And you can see a list here if you wanna pause the video of the characteristics of wicked problems. But with soft sciences, you find that what you discover are more like principles and guidelines. And so we are definitely going to learn principles and guidelines in this course. And the primary takeaway is one of those principles and it's a guideline that we can implement into our own lives, but this is soft science. It isn't like two plus two is always going to equal four. It's a soft science. So it's something that you have to take and apply in your own life. And you take those principles and you take those guidelines you apply 'em in your own life, and then you use them and work with them in the way which seems to be best for you to achieve your own best personal results. So everybody's slightly different, but these are the results that are shown on aggregate through empirical data that when you do this, these results are what is achieved. But in yourself, it might take some time. It's not just like, okay, added two plus two, now I've got four. You start to apply this in your life and it might be a little challenging at first to apply it and then after a while it might become easier. And then it could be this incremental thing that you realize over time the benefits of starting to shift and change your narratives around stress. And so, it's more of a soft science than a hard science. And I just wanna make sure that that was clear from the outset that this is something that is like a skill of basketball. Like, basketball's not math. It's definitely more of a skill. And this, too, is a skill, and it's something that with practice, you will get better at over time. All right, so those are a few of the course details. In the next video, we're gonna talk about how as you gain new information, that allows you to have new opportunities in your life to do things differently and to live in more effective and optimal ways. See in the next video where we'll talk about new information equaling new opportunities